Hi and welcome
to the Udemy's Python course.
Now let's go ahead and get started.
Let me walk you through some
of the tools that I'll be using
for explaining the things,
for writing the code.
And don't worry, we have
the videos about installing
and doing everything
on Windows as well as on Mac.
So don't worry about that part.
We have covered that.
We have been doing
the teaching for like 30 years.
We know the drill, how
to work with that.
Now.
One more thing I would like to
mention is that I usually am down on
the screen on this part, but
sometimes when I want you to focus
more on the screen or entirely on
the screen, I just switch on to this
mode so that you can focus just
entirely on the screen.
But when it's required a little bit
of engagement or you want me
to see, or I want you to focus
on me as well, I switch it back.
But most of the time
you're going to see that.
Okay, you just need to focus
on the screen itself.
I want your 100% attention
So coming on that part,
we are going to be using VS
code as a code editor.
Go ahead and download it.
Don't worry.
We'll walk you through with
the installation part and Python
install and everything.
Apart from this, I also use
a mix of couple of tools
like one of them is Eraser.
I will provide you the link of this.
This helps me to teach.
I can draw diagrams easily and attach
them like these are two boxes
and I can just link these boxes
just like this and if I move one
box it normally goes like that.
This whole stuff helps me to teach.
This is like my whiteboard or rather
accurately blackboard on the screen.
You will find me using
other tools as well.
I don't use them that much.
But still if you want to know about
a little bit more, there's a tldraw.
You'll find that I draw a lot
of diagrams and this helps
people to actually learn.
I use Excalidraw as well,
in my YouTube videos extensively.
Not just a little bit extensively.
So I do have a lot of habit
of drawing the diagrams and stuff.
But for the courses specifically
especially I prefer to use this one,
because it's easier to actually work
on with and it's generally
pretty interesting to work on with.
All right, so this is the basics
of it, like let's go
ahead and get started.
I don't want to waste much
of your time in just overviews.
Let's directly start with somebody
who has never been coded or never
have programmed in the life as well.
So let's start with the basic
and obvious question, what is
programming in itself?
If you have never heard or thought
about it in that way.
So programming, it's a great subject.
Programming is more about like giving
instruction to a computer
and especially the instruction which
computer do understand that is
the most important part of this one.
Computers really
can't think on their own.
And you might be wondering,
hey, AI is there.
They can think.
No, they cannot.
In the AI Also they just repeat
the steps that they have seen
on the Internet quite extensively.
And they are just fancy
word completions.
And they are pretty good
in that I do give you on that.
But they can't really think still.
And you have to provide them
exact instruction, exactly as
written how we'd give them so that
they can think a little bit.
So that's go for that.
Now let's create analogy like what
it's like to have a program.
So let's go ahead and create
a program for making
chai or T as you call now.
Now I usually will give you whole
story and example and narrative
throughout this course.
We do have, let's just say
a chai store or a cafe.
And in that we will take examples
of each of the exercise that
we do related to the chai.
It's one of my favorite thing.
So how are you going
to make the chai?
How you'll give computer instruction
about making a chai.
That is bit challenging,
but we'll try our best to actually
give that instruction.
So all right, let's go
ahead and buckle up.
You also try it along with me.
So step one would be
like gather, water.
All right, I got the water.
Then go ahead and grab some milk.
If you prefer to have a milk T, then
go ahead and grab T leaves as well.
So you might want
to have some T leaves.
Obviously it's a chai.
And then go ahead and grab sugar.
Maybe you like sugar T.
And then also go ahead and grab some
utensils as well.
So these are gathering part.
This is collection of the data.
This is the part one you have
to have to do this.
There is no exception.
There is nothing in that.
Like.
So this is the part one
of giving the instructions.
Hey, collect all of this.
Now once you have done
with this, then obviously
the job is not yet done.
This is just collection
and then we have to provide some
of the conditions as well.
So check conditions and conditions
could be something like we want
to have enough water, maybe clean
cups and then we have to give
a precise instructions after that.
So you can see there are a lot
of moving parts into the coding
as well just like this.
So making chai, you have never
thought about it, but this is all
like gathering the stuff, then check
some condition and then finally
there will be thorough steps.
We will work on the steps as well
that how to actually make this tea.
So these are the three components
and these are the exactly three
components we are going to learn
throughout in this Python course.
Apart from this, I also would like
to address one more thing which is
is coding really that much hard?
This is a tangent example,
but I would say yes and a no.
Is coding truly super
easy walk in the park?
No, it is not.
Everybody says coding is easy,
but it is not that easy.
It requires extensive amount
of effort over the years.
Sometimes you will get comfortable
within months, few months,
but it requires definitely couple
of years to truly get the hand
of what it takes to be programming.
It's not the easiest job and that is
the reason why people get paid
highly for the computer programming.
I would want to have you
realistic aspect of this.
It's not going to be easy,
but it's surely doable.
And especially when the languages
are like Python or JavaScript,
they're super easy to learn.
And Python specially is like
a language which is almost feels
like you know the English,
you know the Python, but there
are nuances of it, there are
complexities of it as well.
So I want you to keep very
realistic ground on this.
It is not that easy,
it takes time to master it.
But getting started writing
simple code is super easy.
You can do this within few months.
But again coding is all about
having the process, breaking down
the steps and, and thinking more.
Writing the code is the easy part.
Thinking about it, having the thought
process of a programmer, that
is where the real magic is and that
is the toughest part of it.
All right, so now that you know
about the tangent part of it, let
me go ahead and give you one more
example before we wrap this up.
So how would you make this
the steps of this?
So let's go ahead and try
to have some of the steps
for making the tea.
First of all what I would like
to do is check if
cattle, we are making the T
in cattle, so cattle has water.
So this is my step one.
What would be your step two?
And again it doesn't really matter if
should have five step or six step.
Whatever it takes.
Then I would love to simply have
a, plug, plug, plug in kettle.
Then obviously boil, boil water.
So these are the basic
steps I would love to have.
Let me shift my
keyboard a little bit.
And this is the second step.
What would be the third step?
I would say get clean cup
or cups, whatever you like.
This is my third step.
What would be my fourth step in that?
Give it a shot, think a little.
I would be saying that add
T leaves so that it gets the color.
And probably also let's add sugar
to cup or maybe to boiling
water, whatever you prefer.
And after that I would have
something more probably.
Pour, boiled.
Oops.
Pour boiled water into
cup and then add, sugar.
Or if you want milk as well,
you can pour that as well.
And then I would say stir and serve.
So these are my steps
of making a tea.
And again, everybody's steps
are different and that's why
they say programming code
is different for everyone.
So these are my steps.
So as you saw, this is
super easy and we can have
the things like this.
So we actually turned making Chai
into a simple piece of code.
Super easy, super nice.
And we have a, great diagram as well.
There we go.
So we first worked on gathering
the things, checking
the condition, and then we wrote
the steps and we have all the steps
for making the table.
And in the very next video, we
will go ahead and try to convert
this into a piece of code.
It is not going to be truly
a python code, we'll just
mimic the Python code.
This is not going to be
accurate, but it will give you
an idea that, okay, Python
is not that really hard.
It's super easy to work on with.
Let's go ahead and move
on to the next video.